Region v (#53)
ut-ras/ras_site: _posts/2020-05-01-region5-2.md

---
layout: post
title: Region V - End of Semester Update - Interesting Tidbits
imagepath: resources/blog/2020-05-01-region5-2
shorttitle: 2020 - Region V
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

There are a couple of things that I didn't include in the other blog post. Below are a couple of tips and tricks and bodges we did to get things to work.
<!--more-->

### Good Planning.
![Planning]({{ site.baseurl }}/{{ page.imagepath }}/planning.jpg)
This first picture is the full circuit diagram of the robot, way at the beginning of the semester when I took over Electrical Lead. The mechanical team basically trapped me in a room and told me to figure out everything we needed before I could leave.

You can see that we have a fairly complicated system here, with ultrasonic (HC-SR04) sensors and the picamera detecting where we are, and motor drivers, motors, and servos actuating us. The hardest part was probably choosing how to allocate pins (we didn't nearly have enough, which meant that we needed to buy a GPIO bonnet that extended off the I2C pins to accomodate all the parts) and how power distribution would work. 

> I spent a lot of time figuring out whether most of the components could be placed on the RPI 3.3V, 5V rails rather than the actual power supply. There are strict limits on how much current everything can drawn from the PI, strict limits on what can be drawn from each rail, and even stricter limits on what can be drawn from the GPIO.

Author: ```suggestion
I spent a lot of time figuring out whether most of the components could be placed on the RPI 3.3V and 5V rails rather than the actual power supply. There are strict limits on how much current everything can drawn from the various parts of the PI like the power rails and the GPIO pins.
```
